Flower children would try
to sell paper-made flowers or any kind of flowers
for exorbitant prices,
talk other children into joining with them. and
bring in whatever thing they could from home that
could be sold for money.
You know, to buy food, because they was hungry.
Sell them, took a bath.
As far as a crime problem, they didn't create much.
As a nuisance problem, they worked.
How do you distinguish that with the hippies?
The hippies were not organized in the way they
were. They were, hippies more or less, were on a
individualistic, I'll do my own thing, kick.
They weren't in groups. There might be one or two or
three running together, but not 50 or 75 as a group
that all lived in one room.
They stunk about the same.
They were probably both still about the same, but
they were not the organized.
commune type, as the class order was.
Any crime aspect of the hippies, other than just
shoplifting or stealing? They're just, at that
time, they were more or less just a drag on society
in that they would do whatever it was, to make their
own thing. If they wanted a fountain pen, they went
by the nearest post office to write a letter and
steal a fountain pen on the counter. If they didn't
want a fountain pen, they took it in and out because
somebody else might want one. They weren't
stealing. It was just a way of existing. If they
wanted a bath, they went to the nearest pillow
station restaurant, locked the door, and took
their bath. or they went to your local department
store. We've got people now that are doing the same
thing. They call them the street people. The names
change. Your actions
don't. How would you describe any anti-war
movement in Fort Worth in response to the anomaly?
Was there any in Fort Worth? I can't answer that
very well. I don't know. There wasn't enough to
make a big impression on me. And that would have
been during the time, I think. You would have
noticed. It was in the late 60s. There wasn't
enough of it to make any impression on me. I don't
know.
Okay. Point that question on.
When something would occur, any kind of incident,
either between blacks or between blacks and
police, would this always be local people? Is it
possible sometimes to be an outside instigator?
Now, by local, you mean in this same neighborhood
or within the same town? Same town. Some of that was
in the right context in their area, or they weren't
from someplace else? No, frequently we've had
disturbances or incidents come up where they were
provoked or enlarged upon or more notoriety
caused by people from other parts of town or other
neighborhoods entirely that were not involved in
that incident at all. They'd get like a commotion.
Any examples that you can come up with off hand? One
that I can personally go on, two or three, but one
that I can personally go on is one I was involved in
out here on Amanda and stopped our section of town
called Stop Six. We had
a domestic disturbance, I believe it was, come up.
And we had a couple of cars respond to the call,
which happened to be in front of a nigger's beer
joint on Sunday afternoon. Everybody's out
walking the streets anyhow. And
upshot of it was, we wound up, we're going to take
the mail
that was involved in the dispute to jail.
I don't remember now whether he was drunk, drunk in
a public place.
What the charge was, when A man that I didn't know, a
black man I didn't know, started all kind of
yelling and hollering, you're not going to take my
brother, my brother this, my brother that. I knew
the black people were arresting. I didn't know the
man that did all the hollering. I asked one of the
local people that lived in stop six that hung
around those beer joints all the time who that man
was. Nobody knew him. He wasn't from around there.
This is a sample of the outside agitation that
could provoke an incident. I think nearly all, I
don't know about now, but at one time, all of your
racial riots started with a damned old nigger
woman screaming. that wasn't involved in the
original incident. I don't understand that. If
you've got a policeman, say a policeman out here
arresting 18 and 19 year old blacks, And then here
comes a 25 to 45-year-old black female raising all
kinds of hell, screaming and obscenities and
everything else. The public in that area gets a
riot. Practically all of your racial riots have
involved that damned old black female.
It started with her being a holler.
I know you hit on it earlier, and this is a little
repetitious question. What did the male officer
think when women started moving out into the law
enforcement, into the field?
Generally, the
officers that were working at that time
Of course, they grew up in their police
experience, all males.
And at a time when physical involvement was
required, you
wouldn't want to be a partner with a female. You
wouldn't want her on the same call with you.
because at that time the general idea was to
respect womanhood, not involved in the
unpleasant scenes and actions that a policeman
necessarily got involved in. Wouldn't want her to
call the names of policemen once.
I guess as big of an issue as anything else that she
would not be capable of taking care of herself
physically. and that you'd have to take care of
her, plus yourself, plus trying to solve the
incidents you were involved in, would create a
hardship for the man.
Plus, some of the officers' wives didn't want
their husbands riding with females. That's the
other piece.
You make it sound like there's a question as to a
woman's ability to do police work. A woman is
physically capable of doing some of the police
work.
Very few of the women are emotionally capable.
There's necessarily a difference between male
and female emotions.
There are some exceptions, but
the ones, for the most part, that have been hired
here,
their physical requirements were not comparable
to physical requirements for men. So that if the
officer is involved in a fight, most of the time, he
can depend on the woman to take care of her share
of it. Give me an example. I don't know how dominant
women were on the . Any examples from the ? Did
something occur at one point that said she didn't
handle herself in this fight? Well, at this
particular point, let's take this issue. At one
time, while I was a sergeant, I was assigned to the
patrol captain's office, working in there
handling phone calls and people that came in with
problems. A cab driver came in, said, I've got a
drunk up there in my cab. He's too drunk to pay his
fare. I brought him here to get him put in jail. I'm
assigned to the office. I catch an officer that's
walking along the hall, which happens to be a
female. Tell her to go get the drunk out of the cab.
Put him in jail.
The captain said, I don't think I ought to let a
female do that by herself. She might get hurt for me
to get up off my butt and go help her. She's the
officer that's getting paid to do the job that her
supervisor told her to do.
This is the attitude that exists. A woman is
physically incapable in some instances. It
wasn't a typical dunk. This one wasn't even
fighting.
That's what she gets paid for. She gets a full
salary. Not a partial salary. She gets a full
salary. That's what she hired out to do. This type
of
thing. Do you think women are accepted by men on the
force today any more than they were? Yes,
they're accepted more. There's more of them. and
the males have been
exposed to them from the beginning, some of our
younger officers.
But
I don't necessarily see if that makes it any
better.
So many times, The
females are necessarily different from the
males. And
their assignments and job performance
evaluations,
friendships, are frequently based on sexual
attraction rather than police performance.
What do you think of the tendency, I'm not sure what
Fort Worth PD's policy is, but the tendency of
police departments to seek out and hire college
graduates or people with some of the hours of
college as officers?
When I started, the requirement was high school
education, high school diploma, or I think they
called it GED.
In the mid-60s, they Fort Worth, along with every
other department of the country, got on a higher
education kick,
which has resulted here. And I believe now they
require either 20 or 30 hours of college education
before you can even apply. What do you
think? Are there benefits to this, you think, or is
it just a remnant of it? I think it's just a
carryover.
Personally,
a policeman's job is
a good memory and common sense.
Distress. on higher education,
they're not going to improve the policeman a whole
lot. How is it justified when a person,
what was the desire of having a higher educated
police officer? Oh, the higher the education, the
more they pay you. The higher the education, the
more chance for advancement. Some of the city's
jobs or, well, even in the police department, they
developed the
policy there of
up until they tended to be a high school education,
the captain had to have college, the deputy chief
had to have a master's degree, To be a chief, you had
to be a super wheel. This type of evolution pushing
our education.
How
would you describe the way the Fort Worth Police
Department worked with the FBI? Was it a frequent
thing, or infrequent, or beneficial, or pain?
FBI on a very favorable
basis. I knew, got acquainted with, and knew
practically all of the officers, the FBI's info
was in several endowments. And I've never had a
problem with any of them. Well, when they got the
time I was assigned to internal affairs.
Frequently, they got complaints involving the
same complaints I was making the investigation
on. They'd hold off doing anything until I
finished my investigation and it just takes the
results of mine. That's what they basically hold
the investigation
on.
they got their rules they've got to go by and
ours were not necessarily the same as theirs but uh
we had no problem
okay
um regarding illegal drug use, possession, and
sales have weakened a lot in the past. The laws
concerning illegal drug use, sales, possession,
all aspects of drugs seem to weaken over the past
probably decade or so. I'm not sure of the time
frame. Why has this occurred? After using it. If
you have a statewide speeding limit at 40 miles per
hour, 10% of your people are going to exceed that
speed limit, regardless of what it is. If 15%
exceed it, and their average is 45, you're not
going to raise that speed limit to 45 miles per
hour. But 10% are still going to exceed it. In other
words, you're going to have a 10% above that,
regardless of what the limit is. When you set that
limit where the majority of your people abide by it
and are reasonably comfortable with it, that is
your acceptable law. The same with your guns.
A drug, say alcohol, and 10% of the people are going
to abuse
it. If you try prohibition, it don't work. You've
got to adjust to a medium that the majority of the
people can live with and accept and be willing to
abide by.
The law is too restrictive.
It's going to be violated so many times that you
can't enforce it. If it's too lenient, there are
going to be such flagrant abuses that the public
will require something to be done.
This is what's made the adjustment, I believe. And
you're more lenient. At the same time, some of your
drug laws are tightened up considerably.
Now, you have the cities, counties, states, and
federals taking a mass property away from
you. It is convicted of drug sales, and they think
they can prove it. that this property was bought
with money made from drug sales. That's
reasonable. That's a hell of a lot tighter than it
used to be, because it used to, you couldn't do
that. You can even take a man's home away from him if
he thinks it's, or feel like he can feel that it was
bought, but it resulted in the sale of the
property. It's not necessarily all Orleanian
laws. There have been other tatter laws passed
too.
What do you think the police, what's your opinion
of these changes, both the tightening and the
weakening? Well, my opinion wouldn't make a whole
lot of difference because we're not really
involved in it. But your police department,
whether it's Fort Worth or anywhere else, is like
any competitive business. They're in a process of
continuous change. They're not a static
organization that will remain the same from now
on. They've got to change
the technology, the attitude, the laws that have
been passed. to the personnel that they're able to
employ. They've got to be adaptable
to a constant change. Because that's what the
organization
is. OK. Spent a year in internal affairs.
What do you remember most about that time? How
would you describe your time at Toronto Fair? Oh,
that gets kind of involved.
Really your internal affairs organization is set
up to
investigate
complaints involving police
officers. The complaints can be from the public,
or the police officers,
or the administration of the police department.
If a deputy chief or chief wants a certain thing
investigated, he can request it. The way ours is
set up, or was at that time, they initiate no
investigations on their own. They operate
strictly off of complaints. And they make no
recommendations.
We had the policy at that time that if it was an
officer involved
and a
copy of the whole investigation would be turned
over to his immediate supervisor for the first
recommendation of what should be done. Then it
went to the second level supervisor on up to the
deputy chief of that particular division and then
the results of all of it went to the chief who makes
the final decision because that's what his job is
and his decision is what it counts now he can concur
he can change raise or lower but it's his decision
that's got to be the final one with the internal
affairs section made no recommendation at all.
Another factor there is that your minority
groups, ACLU,
and some people that are not informed as much as
they should be, frequently harder for civilian
review boards for police departments. That is a
real sore point with most departments because
concerning most police activities, they can't
even be explained to,
much less understood by, so many of the civilian
population. And
if the Civilian Review Board
was appointed by somebody who didn't care for the
police department to begin with or who responded
to politics more than actual circumstances,
There could be a very definite drawback or
detriment to
any department. By the internal affairs group
being able to, or with the understanding of,
making the full, thorough, complete
investigation and making no recommendations,
turning it over to somebody else for that, it
counteracts the, gives a good argument that we
don't need a civilian review board. We've got a
group of people here that will make a complete
thorough investigation and give you the results
of it. Now, then it's up to you to decide what to do
next. But we don't need anyone else
investigating. We'll make the investigation.
And we'll make it third. At the time I was in there,
which was several years ago,
I read figures that the average internal affairs
investigation cost $5,000.
I wouldn't doubt it. That or probably more. And
it's certainly gone up since then. Because it is a
girl. As complete as I can make it. What else?
OK. There was a period there where a lot of people
were crying out about police brutality this and
police brutality that.
Do you think Peachtree County really ever was
anything more than an isolated incident or two?
As a practice note, it was not an isolated
incident. Sure, you're going to have it. You're
going to have it in any business you're in. If
you've got a department with a thousand men.
To give you the classic example,
You're taught in school to treat
everybody alike. The first thing you learn when
you get out working is that you can't treat
everybody alike. They don't expect you to and
don't want you to. Another is...